Okay, so is this the last section
on causing damage to your machine.
We've learned how to delete files,
completely override system permissions,
delete files that don't belong to us,
delete files or directories that are empty;
and now I'm gonna show you how
to completely stop programmes running in their tracks.
So there's a few commands that we can use
to see what programmes are running
and one of them, which I'll refer to
in my kind of workflow quite frequently is PS,
so process status I'm guessing.
And it'll list the processes, processes,
processes, processes, processes that I'm running by default.
So we have this thing called a pid, and it's the process ID.
So every process has a unique ID
that identifies it running on this machine,
so I am, you can see everything I'm running.
I'm running iTerm, which is this programme,
and I'm running a bash instance,
which is this command line here.
There is this ruby command over here that I'm running,
which is, I think it is doing capturing tweets;
and this is the file that's--
this is the command that's actually saving it to a file,
and this is another iTerm instance
that's down near minimise
and that's the other bash instance.
So you can see everything that my user is running right now.
Except I'm also running some other things
like the whole operating system and Chrome Canary
and some other bits and bobs,
so there are arguments that you can pass to PS;
and the ones that I tend to use all the time are auxww.
So much so that I have forgotten what they all mean,
and I'm pretty sure this is like show all processes;
so now we see a lot more
from all users, oh shit, yep.
So now we see remy; we see root.
We see rem at the bottom there,
and X, I can't really remember what X is.
Just a lot more information,
and then ww is super wide.
It gives us the full command so that when I grep,
and I'm about to show you that;
it has the whole line to actually grep on.
So this is pretty, pretty unwieldy.
There's a lot of information here.
I don't tend to look at it like this.
What I'm doing here is first saying
grab everything that's running
and always then pipe into grep
because I'm tend to be looking for one particular thing.
So let's open up Canary and head over to my blog briefly,
and let's just stick that on the side.
There we go.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to look for Canary.
Okay, so I'm gonna grep for Canary;
and it shows some of the Canary items,
and I only did a partial bit of the word,
but what I'll also do is do dash I.
Dash I means ignore case, just in case
I've got the casing wrong basically.
So there's so much there
that I'm kind of not sure how many I have,
so I'm just gonna pass it
straight into wc just to get a count.
So we have ten.
Ten Canaries were matched,
and I've only got one running Canary.
Now I know it's because I'm signed in as another user,
and I have other tabs open;
and there are plug-ins running and so on and so forth.
So I've got a lot of kind of floating bits,
and typically when I'm using PS,
I tend to be looking for one process;
and it'll be that I might wanna stop that process,
or I wanna see if it's even running in the first place.
But I'm gonna show you how to kill a process here.
So we're looking for Canary at the moment.
This isn't particularly useful.
There's too much information here.
What I wanna do is look for
the one that's being run by rem.
So I'm gonna grep for rem, and that's not useful either
because the other user's called remy.
I could grep for rem with a space.
That's one way of doing it.
That kind of narrows it down a bit,
and we're still quite a bit going on.
Let me just do a quick wc again, five;
but, in theory, these are all the ones that belong to me.
Let's pass that to less, have a quick look.
Yeah, it looks like--
I'm just kind of looking over on the left
just to see these first lines.
They all do look like they belong to me.
Now what I need to do now is get the process ID.
I'm going to kill that process ID.
So, there's a few ways that I can do this now.
I'm gonna show you a command called awk.
I'm not really gonna teach you how to use it fully
because it is a whole programme language in itself.
I'm just gonna show you one command,
so print dollar one; and I put it inside a quotes.
And what it's gonna do is it automatically breaks up
each line into a column, and it will print the first column;
and then if I wanna print the second column,
I just put a space in between.
That's obviously how you use spaces, I say sarcastically.
And then column two, which is dollar two;
and now I have the process ID.
So with that I should be able to kill my browser.
Now, let's get rid of the rem part
because I know that they all definitely belong to me.
I've just got to press IDs.
What I'm gonna do is go through
each one of those and kill that process.
I'm gonna start with the--
well, I'm gonna sort those actually.
I'm gonna start with the biggest number
just in a hope that it's the one I'm looking at.
So I'm gonna just type kill and give it the process ID,
and that tells me there is no such process ID.
Oh, yep, it's vanished.
In fact, I can see that last number keeps changing;
so we see it's 53 and 59 and so on and so forth.
So I'm gonna try this one instead,
and it's probably because Chrome has like some,
it's spawning extra things.
So I'm gonna kill this process,
and look what just happened.
We blew up a tab, nice.
But I wanna blow up the whole thing,
so I'm gonna bring back my window.
So we've got all these Chrome matches.
We're gonna pass all of those into kill,
and we use xargs.
What xargs does is take the output from the left side,
and it passes it as an argument
to whatever we give to xargs.
So I'm gonna do kill, and what happens is basically all
of these IDs will end up on the end of the kill command.
And I run it; it's gone.
I've just blown up Chrome entirely.
So, that's how you kill a command using the command line
or, certainly, that's I'd find a command, look for Canary,
make sure it's mine, find the process ID, and then kill it.
Now there are other ways as well.
There's a process called pid, a command called pidof,
which isn't installed here, but we can do a brew instal.
And I've gone and installed a pidof
using my other user on this machine
because I didn't have permission with this particular user,
but now I've installed pidof using brew,
I can type pidof Chrome;
and it will give me the process ID
of all the Chrome instances.
And if I wanted to, I could then pass that to xargs kill;
and it will kill Chrome entirely.
But if you notice down at the bottom I'm not--
I am not running Chrome;
the other user is running Chrome,
and that will pretty mess up my day a little bit.
So we're gonna see pidof sketch.
So I'm signed in as another user on this machine,
and I'm running sketch could kill all the sketch instances.
I'm gonna try; permission denied.
Now we've seen this before when we tried to delete files,
which means we can get around it.
The poor, unsuspecting other remy
is running sketch right now;
and I could go ahead and kill it.
And before I do, I just wanna show you the activity monitor,
which is not firing up activity.
The activity monitor is pretty much the equivalent
to what we're looking at;
and you'll find it under utilities, I think.
Activity monitor, here we go.
So these are all the processes that are running
under this machine right now,
including from other users, I think.
Oh, no, it's not.
I think I can--
maybe I can actually show other users.
So if I search for Chrome, nothing is listed.
You got all processes.
Here's what pidof was finding, all of these processes here;
and you can see that column pid over here.
So we look for sketch, we can see the two sketch processes.
I believe that this one is a child of this one,
so that's why there's two;
and we can see the owner, user is remy.
But we're gonna go ahead and kill those anyway,
and I think you can do it from here as well.
There we can force quit the process,
and the reason I'm showing you on the command line again
is if you have to-- if you can't do it from the GUI,
or if you're having to do it on a remote machine.
So what we're gonna do now is just a sudo kill,
and we're gonna put in our password;
and it's dead.
So that has shut down in the other user's account.
None of them are running.
No pidof sketch.
Now, what we just did is tell
that process to shut down using the kill command;
and there is another--
we were pretty forceful with our sudo,
but there is another way of killing it as well;
and we have kill minus nine.
Kill minus nine means force the programme to quit
regardless of whether or not there's any kind of prompting
or kind of exit handling or anything like that.
It just says just completely get it shut down.
Now you might have--
oh, I was gonna open another window.
You might have a process that's spinning out of control,
using all your CPU; and, you know,
you can't get to it using-- you can't even load it up.
Kill minus nine and then the ID
of the process will force the shutdown
and just instantly kill it in its tracks.
And then, of course, sudo kill minus nine is kind of
the mega mega make this thing stop for sure.
So that's probably the most lethal you can get.
If you absolutely wanna make sure the process is
it stops in its track, then kill,
sudo kill minus nine and the process ID and it will stop.
Just as a little anecdote,
old Linux machines used to have the process ID
of the entire operating system used to be one;
so you could do sudo kill minus nine one,
and that would completely shut down
the entire operating system.
Thankfully, it's impossible to do now.
It's just the system is protecting itself
from idiots like me trying to shut down my entire machine
whilst I'm recording a video.
So, now that we know how to do some damage,
the next video I'm gonna show you,
we'll show you how to check the health of your machine.